status	authors	title	abstract	tags	difficulty	recording	bio	country
Accepted	Jeremy Johnson	Developing an Open Source Keyword Framework for Windmill that Rocks!	"The project is to develop a keyword-testing framework for use with the Windmill automated testing tool. The advantages of a keyword-testing framework are: Allows non-technical resources to develop scripts. Provides a clear separation of roles between the technical automation engineers, and the functional experts. Allows for greater re-use of automation assets. Provides for faster test creation and easier maintenance. Because of these advantages many automated testing tools have chosen to build their own keyword framework.  I intend to borrow the best ideas and implementations from the existing keyword frameworks tools and develop a new keyword-testing framework specifically for use with the Windmill Automated Testing Tool. This presentation will cover the design ideas and implementation of a keyword-testing tool.  It will discuss the pros and cons of keyword testing and the rational behind the development of this tool.  Also we will talk about a road map of needed functionally for the keyword-testing framework.  Finally the presentation will unveil / release, as open source, the keyword-testing framework for Windmill version 0.1. Practical Takeaway 1:  Participants will take away a solid understanding of keyword testing frameworks, the rational behind them and when to use them. Practical Takeaway 2:  Participants will get an overview of the, to be released at the conference, keyword automation framework and understand how to implement it and use it for their own testing projects. Practical Takeaway 3:  Participants will get a view of how open source development works and particularly about how open source practices contribute to developing outstanding testing tools that can compliment their automated testing efforts."	"automated testing, development, keyword framework, windmill"	Intermediate	Yes	"Jeremy Johnson is an automated testing specialist / developer with over 10 years work experience.  Jeremy's previous work experience includes development (C/C++/C#, Java, VB, python) and automated Testing (Performance, UI, test management).  Jeremy currently runs a software development and automation-testing firm (Softworks Consultancy) headquartered in Kuala Lumpur Malaysia.  The small boutique firm (10 people) is spearheading the transformation of software testing in South East Asia.  When Softworks started 6 years ago in Malaysia, most IT companies were barely even testing their products, automation was unheard of, so for the last 6 years Softworks has been educating the IT industry as well as delivering quality services around automated software testing and development."	Malaysia
Accepted	Chris Boesch	Tournament-based Teaching	"In the course of teaching Cloud Computing and SasS at the Singapore Management University, I developed an interesting approach to teaching referred to as Tournament-based Teaching. In this approach, students begin most class sessions by competing in a short software tournament to ensure that they are prepared to participate in the labs and discussions planned for the class session. In this talk, I will share the process that was followed, the unexpected benefits, the learning outcomes achieved, and lessons learned. "	"cloud computing, serious gaming, game based learning"	Beginner	Yes	Associate Professor of Information Systems (Practice) at Singapore Management University	Singapore
Accepted	Eric Jones	Traits: A Component Library for Python	"Traits provides a library and design pattern for building ""components"" and user interfaces within Python.  It is foundational to almost all the libraries in the Enthought Tool Suite (ETS) including Chaco (2D visualization), Mayavi (3D visualization), and Envisage (an application development toolkit), all of which are open source.  This talk will provide an overview of the traits library and how to use it for building applications and user interfaces. Developers use the package by defining ""traits"" on attributes within a normal Python class.  This trait provides type definition that can be used for normal Python object attributes, giving the attributes some additional characteristics: * Initialization: A trait has a default value, which is automatically set as the initial value of an attribute before its first use in a program. * Validation: A trait attribute's type is explicitly declared . The type is evident in the code, and only values that meet a programmer-specified set of criteria (i.e., the trait definition) can be assigned to that attribute. Note that the default value need not meet the criteria defined for assignment of values. * Delegation: The value of a trait attribute can be contained either in the defining object or in another object delegated to by the trait. * Notification: Setting the value of a trait attribute can notify other parts of the program that the value has changed. * Visualization: User interfaces that allow a user to interactively modify the value of a trait attribute can be automatically constructed using the trait's definition.  The UI layer in traits is cross platform and works with both the wxPython and QT windowing toolkits. A class can freely mix trait-based attributes with normal Python attributes, or can opt to allow the use of only a fixed or open set of trait attributes within the class. Trait attributes defined by a class are automatically inherited by any subclass derived from the class."		Beginner to Intermediate	Yes	"Eric Jones is CEO of Enthought, Inc., a scientific computing company based in Austin, Texas."	USA
Accepted	O.R.Senthil Kumaran	State of CPython and Python Ecosystem	"This a high level overview of the State of CPython interpreter and other Python interpreters.State of Cpython interpreter: Major changes in the language in 3.2 release, Major changes which are coming up in 3.3 release, State of Python 2.7. State of PyPy interpreter: Features in PyPy release 1.4, It's compatibility with CPython, It's interesting performance enhancements in recent times, Where is PyPy heading towards? IronPython Interpreter: IronPython 2.7 release, State of IronPython. State of Jython Interpreter: Jython release. 2.5.4, Developments in the Jython world"	"python3, pypy, jython, ironpython"	Intermediate	Yes	Senthil Kumaran is a Python Core developer and maintainer of Internet protocol related libraries in Python Stadard Library. http://www.uthcode.com is his programming site.	Singapore
Accepted	"Tan Kok Cheng, Vincent Ng"	Using Python Client Library for Google Data APIs	"The Google Data Protocol (GDP) is a REST-based technology for accessing products and services hosted by Google. The GDP enables developers to create new applications that make use of the data stored by the many Google products such as Picasa Web Album and Google Finance. In this session, we will share about the use of the Python Client Library to create some simple applications. We will show how the use of the client library removes the complexity of dealing with HTTP requests and parsing of raw XML data. We will also discuss about the authentication process and the format of the various data feeds. The following Google products and services will be covered in this talk:  1. Picasa Web Albums 2. Google Finance 3. Google Calendar 4. Google Analytics 5. Google Spreadsheets "	google data api	Beginner	No	"Mr Tan Kok Cheng, Senior Academic Staff, Republic Polytechnic; Mr Vincent Ng, Academic Staff, Republic Polytechnic"	Singapore
Accepted	Brett Hartshorn	Using RPython for 3D Gaming in Android 2.3+	"Using RPython (from the PyPy translation toolchain) to compile native code using the Android NDK (native dev-kit), and connecting with C libraries useful for games (OpenDynamicsEngine, OpenGLES).  Talk starts with an introduction to RPython, and using RPython and OpenGL on standard Linux.  How to generate extra bindings to C libraries for use with RPython.  Finally how to compile and test RPython programs using the Android emulator."	"rpython, android, game programming"	Advanced	Yes	Python Programming (currently working on the realxtend project)	Philippines
Accepted	Simone Brunozzi	Leveraging Cloud Computing to Launch Python Apps	"You already know how to develop in Python, and how to put your apps online. But what happens when you're looking for the IT Infrastructure to power your App? That's what Cloud Computing can help you with. Simone Brunozzi, Amazon Web Services Technology Evangelist for APAC, will guide you through the basic concepts behind Cloud Computing, and showcase the advantages of a flexible and scalable Cloud Infrastructure, over a traditional infrastructure model."	"cloud computing, amazon web services"	Intermediate	Yes	"I've been a PHP developer, and used Python only for a few months. This talk, however, doesn't focus too much on Python itself, but rather on how to run Python on a flexible, scalable infrastructure. Technology Evangelist, Amazon Web Services APAC"	Singapore
Accepted	Mark Rees	What Do You Mean It Must Be Java Based! How Jython Saved The Day.	"For many companies, enterprise software means it must run in a Java environment, and if your offering is Python based, how do you get past this impediment? This talk will showcase Jython (http://jython.org/) as a way to get your Python app running under the Java VM. The talk will cover Jython setup & use, a comparison to CPython, and leveraging Java libraries when necessary. The steps to get your SQLAlchemy, Django and Pyramid based applications running under Jython will be part of this talk. The talk is based on the experiences of our company deploying both our existing CPython applications and Java specific scripts under Jython."	"web, jython"	Intermediate	Yes	"Over his 25+ years as a programmer, Mark has programmed in many languages, but has the most fun programming in Python which he has been using since 1997 aka Python 1.4. He is the lead on the isapi_wsgi adaptor project, and a contributor to a number of Python Open Source projects. His current day job is Chief Technology Officer for Century Software (M) Sdn Bhd, a Malaysian software solutions company that uses Python & Open Source software in many of itæ_s offerings. He has spoken at a number of Open Source conferences about Python."	Malaysia
Accepted	Graham Dumpleton	Hosting Python Web Applications	"Web applications which are able to dynamically deliver up content have become a crucial part of the Internet landscape, with Python becoming an increasingly popular choice for the implementation of all manner of web applications. In order though for users to be able access your web application you need to host it. The choices available are however many and varied with accurate information on which may be a good choice not always easy to find. This talk will give an overview of the different choices available for hosting Python web applications. It will cover mainstream web servers such as Apache and nginx, contrast the architectural differences between them and then go on to look at how Python web applications are bolted on to these web servers via language agnostic protocols such as FASTCGI/SCGI/AJP or more integrated solutions such as Apache/mod_wsgi and uWSGI. The alternate architecture of using a standalone Python web server such as gunicorn, Paste server or the CherryPy WSGI server behind a conventional web server acting as HTTP proxy will also be described. The overall aim of the talk will be to give people a better appreciation for how web servers and your Python web application come together and some of the pros and cons of different solutions."	"web programming, wsgi"	Intermediate	Yes	Graham Dumpleton hails out of Sydney Australia and has been active in free and open source projects since the early 90s. He is the author of the mod_wsgi module for Apache and also participated as a developer on the mod_python module for Apache. Graham is a member of both the Python Software Foundation and Apache Software Foundation. Graham is currently working for New Relic on production web application monitoring tools for Python.	Australia
Accepted	Graham Dumpleton	Getting Started with Apache/mod_wsgi	"The preferred method for hosting of Python web applications in conjunction with Apache at this time is mod_wsgi. This talk will cover how to get started with hosting a Python web application using Apache/mod_wsgi. The talk will progress through setting up a basic hello world WSGI application, describing the common configuration problems that can occur and the solutions. A more advanced example showing how to set up a Django web site will be described, including topics such as configuring Apache for handling of static media required by the Django site, use of Python virtual environments, source code reloading and use of daemon mode of mod_wsgi. This talk is effectively a repeat of the same talk given at Australian and New Zealand PyCon conferences in 2010. Video for the prior talk at Sydney can be found at http://pyconau.blip.tv/file/3840484/ with slides available at 'http://code.google.com/p/modwsgi/downloads/detail?name=mod_wsgi-pyconsydney-2010.pdf."	"web programming, wsgi"	Intermediate	Yes	Graham Dumpleton hails out of Sydney Australia and has been active in free and open source projects since the early 90s. He is the author of the mod_wsgi module for Apache and also participated as a developer on the mod_python module for Apache. Graham is a member of both the Python Software Foundation and Apache Software Foundation. Graham is currently working for New Relic on production web application monitoring tools for Python.	Australia
Accepted	"Randy Joseph Fernandez, Ray Vincent Gomez"	Design of a Ticketing System for Health Care using web2py	"The UP Manila National Telehealth Center manages a telereferral system that enables rural-based physicians to refer more complex cases to clinical specialists at a tertiary university hospital. The telehealth nurses of the center facilitate information exchange between the referring physicians and the specialists. We designed an improved system for telereferrals, implemented using the web2py framework. This new system receives referrals from emails, the short messaging service, and the browser-based interface. The creation of a new referral generates a unique ticket for the nurses and specialists to respond. Annotations for each ticket are grouped into a single thread so that concerned users are informed of any actions done. In addition, users (rural physicians, nurses, and specialists) are able to assign tags to the referrals for future reference and statistics. Moreover, users can forward referrals to a group (or groups) of specialists, where peers can participate in discussions. With this improved system, we expect the center to provide rural-based physicians timely and accurate information to help them perform better patient management."	"ticketing system, web2py, telereferral, health care"	intermediate	no	"(Fernandez) Software Developer, University of the Philippines Manila National Telehealth Center; Lecturer, Electrical and Electronics Engineering Institute, University of the Philippines Diliman. (Gomez) Teaching Associate, Electrical and Electronics Engineering Institute, University of the Philippines Diliman"	Philippines
Accepted	Nam T. Nguyen	Ban Suong -- Learning Python through Game	"The presentation describes our experiment in making and using game to teach Python as an object oriented programming language. It talks about the game model which is based on the classic Battleship, overall game play in which players/learners must write dynamically loaded modules to target enemy ships, a web-based live tournament system where audience can enjoy a live match, and a forgotten iterator-based asynchronous feature in WSGI that was used heavily in the live tournament system. It also talks about some interesting techniques, that are semantically required in Python, that can be used to cheat in such an architecture."	"game programming, teaching, object oriented, frame"	Beginner	Yes	"Vithon's (Vietname Python User Group) founder, Software Engineer and Information Security Professional"	Vietnam
Accepted	Ikai Lan	Rapid Web Development with Tornado Web and MongoDB	"This talk will briefly introduce the scalability features of working with a Tornado/MongoDB stack, but focus more on the simplicity and flexibility of this stack as a rapid web development platform. We'll cover NoSQL basics, the asynchronous programming model, and highlight a few very cool features of Tornado, PyMongo and MongoDB."		Beginner	Yes	"Member, Google App Engine team"	USA
Accepted	Kenny Shen	Extending Python with R for statistics	"Python is an awesome language for automating tasks and quickly prototyping ideas into code. R is a powerful Open Source platform for statistical computing of all sorts, with a wide ecosystem of libraries ready for the picking. What happens when you put the two together? The aim of this presentation is to show the ease with which R libraries and functions can be roped into Python to aid in performing statistical calculations while leveraging the diversity of Python to pull data from your favorite databases, perform automation and convert data types between the two."	"statistics, R, rpy2"	Beginner	Yes	Freelance web developer.	Singapore
Accepted	George Goh	Python Programming on Android	"This is a beginner/intermediate demo/talk on how to use Python to write Android programs. It starts off with a brief description of the SL4A environment for the Android and the Py4A project that ports Python to the Android platform. The Cellbots project is also introduced as the project that inspired the demo. The talk is followed by a programming demo. In this demo, an Arduino-based, Android-controlled robot is manipulated via the SL4A's Python environment. By manipulating the robot via an ipython shell on the laptop, the benefit of the Python environment as an exploratory tool for programming libraries is demonstrated. Following this, we package the program written in the previous step into an Android native package, ready to be installed on another phone. Finally, the talk ends with more detail about SL4A and Py4A, including some history, statistics, architecture and design of the scripting environments, and also the current status of the projects and what to expect in the near future."	"android, arduino, robots"	Beginner to Intermediate	Yes	Research Engineer	Singapore
Accepted	Vishal Sapre	"GUI Apps in Python : Simple, Robust and Easy to Develop"	"This talk focuses on creating Python applications using Enthought Traits and TraitsUI packages. The talk will give an introduction to the underlying packages and then go on to show a hands on example of a GUI application created entirely in Python. The talk also shows how to package the application so that it can be distributed easily. The talk aims to attract Python programmers to the Traits and TraitsUI ecosystem and demonstrate how they can use it to create Rich Client Applications purely in Python. Development and examples will be on a Windows machine, since that is what I use mostly, however, the code is not Windows specific, because of the cross platform nature of Python, TraitsUI and WxPython."	"business and scientific applications, gui programming"	Intermediate	Yes	"Computer engineer and self taught software developer. Currently working in a semiconductor company, creating internal software tools in Python/C"	India
Accepted	Eka A. Kurniawan	Python for Serial Communication	"Python is famous for a very wide range of modules and how easy to use them. Not only on software level but also in accessing hardware. My talk will mainly focus on how to establish communication between PC to other devices via serial port. For better illustration, I will give a demo using USB to serial port device connecting my laptop and an FPGA board. There are some key points that I will like to cover. For theory, I'll start with low-level hardware abstraction, serial port basic including driver installation and followed by the introduction to pySerial module. Then, moving to practical section where I will show a quick demo on console to make sure the basic functions are working before finally end it at integrating the functions into GUI tool. At this point, I will give few tips to overcome some problems that I faced using PyQt but it won't be so much on the PyQt development itself."	"serial port, usb, pyserial, pyqt"	Beginner	Yes	Engineer	Singapore
Accepted	Mohd Izhar Firdaus Ismail (KageSenshi)	Simplified Web Skinning using XDV	"Skinning an existing web application can be a tough work. Converting a design into HTML and CSS that works with existing web application requires quite some effort to map the classes and the layouts. If the design layout is not similar to the application's layout, it gets trickier. Then there is the use case when you want several different web applications to share the same theme. You will need to convert, and maintain a separate theme package, with different CSS classes in order to skin the other application. XDV was created for this purpose. Primarily used by the Plone community, it comes in the form of a Plone product (collective.xdv), a WSGI middleware and standalone proxy, and plugin for nginx/varnish/apache. Using XSL Transformation definitions, a developer can write a ruleset to transform an existing, unthemed web application, into a themed variant with ease, without going in too much details on what the CSS classes used by the application. The talk will cover an introduction to XDV, and a quick demo on how to use it to theme a simple example site."	"deliverance, xdv, web programming, theme"	Beginner	Yes	"Izhar Firdaus / KageSenshi is a system integrator in Inigo Consulting Sdn Bhd, a small Malaysian company which focuses on development related to Zope and Plone technologies. "	Malaysia
Accepted	Kausikram Krishnasayee	Insane Django Testing	"With the advent of light weight development process there has been an ever increasing emphasis on testing. Testing of apps today is no longer a separate function but has gotten integrated into mainstream development. The same developer is expected to not only write code, but also to test it and ensure that his it passes all the codes. We are entering a world of ""insane"" testing. Tests come ahead of development, tests come after development and tests come in between development. In such a test driven environment we shall look at how we can remain ""insane about testing"" and yet reduce the amount of chaos that the system brings into play. we will go beyond the vanilla testing features that django provides and see how we can make testing, simpler and more effective. We will be looking first in very brief how unittests have evolved into an effective tool to test django apps. we will look at some tips and tricks to make unittests more effective and less verbose. we will then proceed to look at BDD, using DSLs to define and run test cases at a functional level. We will for this utilize the freshen BDD framework, which is a pythonic implementation of the popular cucumber framework. Next we will go ahead and use the same BDD framework to write selenium acceptance tests. we will be using the python selenium driver to simulate realtime browser actions based on our BDD tests.And finally we will see how a CI server can be setup using buildbot that will run all these selenium tests in a headless server, thus automating these test cases. By the end of the presentation the speaker would establish that by using various freely available tools we can setup a complete robust and scalable testing framework for django that will be production worthy."	"testing, bdd, dsl, ci, django"	Intermediate	Yes	"Kausikram Krishnasayee, is a code geek at Silver Stripe Software. Being a Mechanical Engineer, it was love at first sight, when he got introduced to the python programming language. Python to him is the natural, only obvious way he found to transcend from his Spaghetti PHP days, as the Main Site Administrator and head of Technology and backend operations of Proto.in. Kausik is convinced that he is in no way a python guru but a very modest and enthusiastic student of the language that helps him earn his bread and butter. He is ever fascinated in learning and discovering new things and intricacies surrounding the language, and loves to share the tricks he learnt with his peers. Kausik, presented two talks at PyCon India 2010, and has been part of the team that ran PyCon India the last two years. He is also the current assosciate secretary of the Indian Python Software Society. And gives Pro Bono python awareness workshops at a few local colleges in Chennai."	India
Accepted	Gavin Bong	Introduction to packrat parsing for PEGs (Parsing Expression Grammars)	"A PEG (Parsing Expression Grammar) is suitable for describing grammars that have an unambiguous syntax. Packrat parsing is an implementation technique to parse PEGs in guaranteed linear time. This talk aims to teach the techniques of packrat parsing by investigating example parser constructions in two python frameworks, namely pyparsing & pyMeta. Pypy has a rudimentary packrat parser feature which will be briefly covered. The talk begins by providing a quick overview of PEGs by introducing common language parsing concepts like production rules, terminals/non-terminals and parse trees (ASTs). Packrat parsing as a technique will be investigated briefly. The talk will then introduce pyparsing and several grammars of increasing complexity will be explained to show what kind of use cases are feasible. Next, the talk explains the motivations behind OMeta, an extension of PEGs. Their commonalities & differences will be described. Following that, we explore the PyMeta project that implements the OMeta concepts."	"grammars, packrat parsing, pyparsing, pymeta, pypy"	Beginner	No	"Worked in the IT industry for more than a decade. Started out with C++ development, migrated to Java. Currently interested in languages like scala, python & haskell."	Singapore
Accepted	Atamert Ölçgen 	Optimizing Media Performance with django_compressor	"django_compressor_ is an automated media optimization app for Django. It provides functionality to combine and compress your CSS and JavaScript files in an unobtrusive way. Combining decreases the number of HTTP request required to download the content and compression reduces payload decreasing bandwidth usage. Together these techniques help improve performance in the client side. This talk will explain installing and configuring django_compressor_ in a front to back approach. We will start wrapping media links with ``{% compress %}`` template tags and configuring filters. Then we will discuss how django_compressor_ generates bundles, how it evades dog piling problems, gotchas about structure and content of media content. We will also discuss more advanced configuration options like custom storage backends and custom parsers. Finally we will discuss further optimization techniques like asynchronous loading, image sprites and data URI's."	web programming	Intermediate	Yes	Software Development Manager** at `Brandsfever Pte. Ltd <http://www.brandsfever.com/>	Singapore
Accepted	Ashish Singhal	Doc Cloud - Document Synchronisation and Management System in Python	"This  talk  puts  forward  the  design,  programming  and  application  of  innovative business  software,  'Doc Cloud' developed  using  Python  and  PyGtk  Python  bindings. It is an application, which provides the capabilities of both document management framework like Google Docs and an end to end management system like DropBox.  This application uses python for synchronizing documents, network protocols and search capabilities. It provides the features to upload, share, search and synchronize folders in a single application. The paper explains that  using  Python  as  building  tool,  it  requires  much  less  coding  than  conventional feature rich applications coded in other programming languages, and at the same time does not compromise on stability, inter-operability and robustness of the application.  "	business and scientific applications	Intermediate	Yes	"Product Engineer, Software for Education, Entertainment and Training Activities (SEETA) ashish@seeta.in "	India
Accepted	Feng Li	Python for Mobile Development	"This presentation is mainly focused on Python-based programming for mobile development including following contents: 1) A brief introduction of Python for mobile development against various platforms like Symbian, Maemo, and Android 2) Python runtime environment for Android -- Java or native implementation, the comparision of the access mechanism against native code between Java and Python, and the internal of the Google's open source project--""Scripting Layer for Android""(SL4A) 3) My attempt to build a PyPy-JVM based Python runtime environment on Android includes the porting of JNA 4) An enhancement for the remote control implememtation of SL4A from me 5) A Python-based Android development kit that designed and implemented by me, and the comparison of the way to construct a SDK/IDE by using Python or Java(Eclipse), together with discuss on the Python-based autotest framwork against Linux  kernel(http://autotest.kernel.org) 6) Research on the Python-based visual programming for mobile developments platforms, which includes the application of the famous M.I.T project ""Sikuli"" for software testing on mobile devices   "	"mobile, android"	Intermediate	No	"Senior software engineer on various mobile development platforms like J2ME, BREW, and Android"	China
Accepted	Ted Dunstone	"PyLightPlug: A Lightweight Plugin Architecture for Scientific Applications, with Batteries Included."	"Those building scientific applications often require a way to extend application functionality, whilst sheltering the user from needing to know too much about the underlying application design. Plugin systems are designed to provide a way to abstract functionality and protect the user from doing damage, but still allow flexibility to accommodate both current and future requirements. This talk will discuss a light weight plug-in package system called PyLightPlug using meta classes and doc string introspection that is tailored for scientific applications. It provides the following benefits: 1 . Documentation: A structured doc string is used as part of the specification for the plugin. The format follows the Sphinx standard and hence provides well documented user information about the plugin. The same information is also is used to determine if the plugin can run (requirements filtering) as well as other display related attributes. 2 . Requirements Filtering: Requirements are filtered based on one or more evaluated commands embedded in the doc string using a sphinx like format. These are used to determine if a plugin can run based on meta-data provided as dictionaries by the plugin manager. 3 . Data Handing: A method of handling collections of scientific data based on flickr style tags. 4 . Post Processing Decoration: A flexible decoration post processor to customize the styling of any output. 5 . Debugging: Plugins can be easily debugged and tested via a command line interface. This ensures that plugin errors can be handled appropriately and also that changes to plugins are dynamically refreshed without requiring an application restart. 6 . Rest Interface: An infrastructure that includes the batteries for using the plugin with web infrastructure. 7 . Security: The prevention of malicious plugin code by restricting the execution environment 8 . Sharing: The ability to easily share developed plugins. 9 . Light-Weight: The library is designed to be a compact and well documented"	web programming	Intermediate to Advanced	Yes	"Dr Ted Dunstone has been building scientific applications in python for the last 8 years. These applications have had to handle a wide variety of different data sizes and types, differing computing environments and data transformations. His primary area of specialization is in biometric systems and performance analysis. Ted has a PhD in machine learning from Wollongong University in Australia, and a computer engineering degree from the university of South Australia. He has recently co-authored a book on biometric data analysis published by Springer N.Y."	Australia
Accepted	Ole Nielsen 	The Development of an Open-Source Application Risiko using Python and Django for the Estimation of Impact from Natural Disasters.  	"The impacts from natural hazards are increasing worldwide and it is widely acknowledged that understanding and communicating the risks of hazards becoming disasters are fundamental to saving lives, livelihoods and infrastructure. Modelling of hazards, their consequences and likelihoods to establish the necessary information is a key to understanding disaster risk faced by communities. Governments worldwide are therefore increasingly requiring rigorous, standardised and accessible risk modelling to underpin disaster management decisions. Good risk analyses rely on modelling using spatial information ranging from geophysical data to population information and administrative jurisdictions. The Risiko tool will support the implementation of risk assessment by making them easy to use, allowing results to be reproduced, and ensuring consistency across different jurisdictions. Risiko is a Python/Django application that will model impacts of different hazard events on population or infrastructure using distributed spatial hazard and exposure data hosted using spatial data management frameworks from OpenGeo. This will allow local authorities to undertake generalimpact modelling to better prepare their local communities for the impact of natural disasters."	"project best practices, web programming, geographical information systems, risk modelling, natural disasters, open source web mapping"	Beginner to Intermediate	yes	"Ole Nielsen has been an Open Source adopter, promotor and developer since the early nineties during his career as technical consultant, academic researcher, government scientist and development professional within an aid organisation. Ole has a double Master's degree in Mathematics and Computer Science as well as a PhD in scientific computing from universities in Denmark. After a short stint as a consultant in parallel computing, he joined the Australian National University researching wavelet techniques for predictive modelling, large scale data mining and bio-informatics. Ole took up a position as a computational scientist at Geoscience Australia in 2003 where he was responsible for the development of a hydrodynamic modelling capability and its applications in tsunami impact modelling for Australian emergency management agencies. This work was awarded the Emergency Management Australia ""Safer Communities Award"" in 2005 and 2007 as well as the ""Asia-Pacific Spatial Excellence Award"" in 2007. In 2010 Ole joined AusAID in Jakarta to support the Indonesian government in multi-hazard disaster risk reduction. Ole is the lead developer of the Open Source packages ANUGA (hydrodynamc fluid mechanics) --- which was featured on Australian TV (The New Inventors) in June 2009 --- and PyPar (Parallel computing for Python) as well as a number of smaller scientific toolkits. He is a dedicated advocate for adherence to regression testing, revision control and agile approaches to ensure software quality. Ole has been instrumental in elevating the awareness of Open Source in government organisations by demonstrating the strategic advantage of publicising tools as Open Source, promoting Linux as the platform of choice for scientific computing, building Beowulf clusters and participating in a tender panel for a government wide survey of the uptake and use of Open Source."	Australia
Accepted	Yus Budiyono	Development of a Spatial Based Decision Support System	"The government of South Kalimantan Province maintain an understanding that its budget plan is supported majority from coal mining. Wetland knowns to provide only 7.8% compared to coal mining (assessment based on crop economy against mining tax). This in turn oversee wetland as minor thing to manage. Thus, wetland is potentially treated by pollution from upper mining zone. On the other hand, South Kalimantan wetlands provide rice for the whole population. In 2007 it gives surplus of about 641,721 tons or about half the quantity consumed by the population. The latter is an opportunity to show the local government the importance on wetland by displaying the size of wetland and it's potential support to food security. Particularly, since Kalimantan is the least prone to geological disaster compared to other sites in Indonesia. Failure to tell the importance may result mismanagement of wetland. In fact, in some County administration such as Hulu Sungai Selatan, wetland starts experiencing conversion into palm oil plantation following the growing need of Sawit Palm oil production as bio-energy. The project is aimed to initiate a decision support system on wetland management based on regulation accrued in the wetland that may be used by government at higher level as shown in figure below. Hence, it is expected that policy will own an easy to produce baseline scientific quantization rather than social higher political discussion. Python is observed as high level language that runs on many platform and is friendly to scientific notation and calculation. To date, the project is on the development stage of python-based GUI implementing spatial information and scientific functions based on dynamic model on the ecosystem. Resolutions is designed by means of regional economic model principles."	business and scientific applications	Beginner	No	"Master of Engineering Science, The University of Melbourne, 2000"	Indonesia
Pending Approval	George Loo	Mars Orbit Injection with Python Scripted Navigation Computer	"The future manned mission to Mars will be the most challenging space expedition since the Apollo Moon landings of the 20th century. The success rate of unmanned craft since the 1960s: 50% of the 38 launches from Earth. Twelve of the missions included attempts to land on the surface, but only seven transmitted data after landing. The astronauts cannot fully depend on Mission Control as Mars is at least fifty to four hundred million kilometres from Earth. This talk suggests that astronauts perform the course correcting engine burn calculations as they approach Mars as they are nearer and their instrument readings would be more reliable. This burn must be precise as too little a burn would mean the spaceship will overshoot Mars and too much will result in a crash on the surface. Mars Orbit Injection is the successful capture of the spacecraft in Mars gravity field, such that the spacecraft becomes a satellite to the planet in a stable orbit. Hypothetically, they should use a scripting language like Python in their navigation calculations spread over different kinds of hardware to have redundancy."	"scientific applications, education"	Beginner	yes	"R&D Director, Aerospace Hobbyist"	Singapore
Rejected	"Shanjit Singh Jajmann, Mukul Gupta, Ishan Bansal"	Software Development Practices in a Python Based Desktop Environment	"One of the key aspects of making a Python based software application is to receive feedback from the users and implement them in the form of feature requests and bug fixes. The aim of this paper is to make developers aware of how to go about bug fixing, implementing feature requests and contributing to the community by pushing relevant code to the main repository. We also introduce the idea of Version Control Systems and how they are used to maintain and share code by developers. Sugar is a desktop environment maintained by Sugarlabs. Sugar is developed in Python and runs on a GNU/Linux Kernel originally from the Fedora Project, and now from a variety of GNU/Linux Distributions. Feedback of users on various functional aspects of Sugar is addressed by developers through patches .We aim to share our experience of fixing bugs and implementing feature requests by developing and submitting patches and pushing the changes to the main repository in the context of this Python based environment using Git as the Version Control System."	best project practices	Beginner	Yes	Product/Research Engineer	India
Pending Approval	"Manu Sheel Gupta , Anurag Chowdhury and Ayush Goyal"	"Development of Content Creation Tool using Javascript, Html5 and Python based Web Programming Frameworks."	"A content creation tool available both on the private and the public cloud with a rich user interface and smooth operational capabilities is our ambition. We wish to use the upcoming technologies on the client side like Html5, which promises us of many exciting features like capabilities for developing neat user interfaces, and removing the key issues of accessing system resources. Python web frameworks like Django and open web servers like Tornado provides a set of functionalities to support a rich yet lightweight application, and help meet the set of requirements to keep the system working effeciently using any available web browser. We wish to share the key aspects that could help expedite the development of such applications for the developers with diverse Python experiences."	web programming	Beginner	Yes	Research Engineer	India
Pending Approval	Mohd Izhar Firdaus Ismail (KageSenshi)	Automated and isolated python environment using Buildout.	"Developing and deploying multiple python applications on a single environment is always a challenge. Version conflicts of libraries are one of the major blocker when developing on such environment. Traditionally, developer will create a virtualenv environment for each of the applications. However, setting up repeatable virtualenv across multiple systems with exact versions of libraries can be quite a daunting task. zc.buildout is a tool developed by Jim Fulton of Zope Corporation to aid such task. It allows developers to create a repeatable environment, with version locks, and automated build recipes, using a simple configuration file. The talk will cover an introduction to buildout, and how to use it in a development environment, including the methods to lock version, cache packages, and using existing buildout recipes to add functionalities in the environment."	"buildout, environment isolation"	Beginner	Yes	"Izhar Firdaus / KageSenshi is a system integrator in Inigo Consulting Sdn Bhd, a small Malaysian company which focuses on development related to Zope and Plone technologies. "	Malaysia
Rejected	"Dipankar Patro, Ishan Bansal, Neeraj Gupta"	Packaging Python Applications for Ubuntu/Debian	"Now a days coding a program well is not the last step while developing a good Python application. The developer needs to provide the end users a simple way to use the application. For that the programmer should package his software to make sure it is being used by people around the world hassle free. Ubuntu/Debian is one of the most user-friendly operating systems and is attracting more users due to increase in ease of accessibility of open source software and programs. Our aim is to critique currently existing technologies in the field of packaging for Debian/Ubuntu, develop a simplified method for packaging a program after the source code is ready and to discuss coding practices so that the applications can provide localization feature. Sugar is an award winning learning platform developed in and runs on GNU/Linux. We have experimented with Sugar-Activities (learning applications for children) packages as maintainers for both Debian and Ubuntu packaging world and have developed a set of key practices for packaging."	packaging	Beginner	Yes	Research Engineer	India
Pending Approval	"Chirag Jain, Dipankar Patro"	'SaarAnsh': Employing Python to Develop Automatic Information extractor and Summarizer	"Information is a source of learning. But unless it is organized, processed, and available to the right people in a format for decision making, it is a burden, not a benefit." - William Pollard. The statement made by William Pollard is very apt. Today information is flowing like water in floods but that water is of no use until it is properly canalized. Thus information needs to be presented in a more organized and processed manner to be of more benefit. This talk will present how the power of Python and its various modules can be integrated into a very useful and effective automatic information extractor and summarizer application. The objective will be to use the Python interface for various functionalities like text to speech, graphical user interface and beautiful soup to integrate them into a single useful tool. The application is named as 'SaarAnsh', which is a Hindi word for summaries. It will be demonstrated that how this tool can produce customizable and editable summaries of user entered topics quickly and efficiently. Hence it has a great potential to become a very beneficial tool especially for teachers and students. It will also prove how Python as a programming language can be utilized effectively for the creation of powerful and user-friendly applications."	"education, automatic summarization, information extraction"	Intermediate	Yes	Research Engineer	India
Pending Approval	"Nitish Goyal, Yogesh Garg, Vijit singh, Manusheel Gupta"	"Aspiring Citizens, a serious game as a tool to spread Health Awareness"	"Health is primary concern to every individual, society and community in this world and children are the most vulnerable to health based problems. So a well educated child will not only sustain his well being but will also impact his surroundings too. There are different modes of spreading awareness like books, digital media etc. We present Aspiring Citizens (Formerly known as FoodForceII) as a strategy based game which can provide health based lessons to children through the immersive power of storytelling. Python was the language of choice for developing Aspiring Citizens. Along with the general functioning of Python, Pygame module of python has been extensively used in the development, because it was initially developed for OLPC XO laptops and being a more hardware friendly language, python was the best choice for us. Aspiring Citizens is localized in different languages, so language is not a barrier while playing. Aspiring Citizens lays full control of the platform in the hands of the instructor. The instructor could design new stories, change the flow of stories, add more stuff into the game and hence completely control the manner in which he wants to teach. So this dynamic nature of the game overcomes the static nature of prevailing games which though provides same knowledge but becomes uninteresting after some time. So we believe that Aspiring Citizens can evolve as teaching tool for the instructor to keep students engaged in the process of learning."	"serious game, storytelling, education, science and maths, game programming"	Beginner	yes	"produce engineer, SEETA"	India
Pending Approval	Atamert Ölçgen	Pseudo-Random Image Generation with PIL	"Image synthesis is the process of creating images from some form of recipe. In the case of a purely random recipe only abstract images can be generated. On the other hand a purely descriptive recipe would generate artificial looking images. Rendering different realistical images in a repeatable way can be achieved by blending these two approaches. Pseudo-random image synthesis builds on a few basic operations that depend on a simple pseudo-random number generator. Using these as building blocks one can create recipes for rendering different textures and even whole compositions. This talk will first explore some generative design examples. We will then define some atomic operations; a simple noise, gradients, perlin noise, generic filter for repeatable images, diffusion... These operations will be combined to build some example generators."	"education, science and maths, game programming"	Advanced	yes	"I have born in Türkiye, 1981. I studied human excrement in University. Having failed at my attempt to be a 3D artist, I thought hey, programming seems like fun and rewarding. Since then I have been failing in various programming tasks. In my spare time I like thinking about how to find some time to start blogging again. Vocation: Software Development Manager at Brandsfever Pte. Ltd."	Singapore
Rejected	"Swarandeep Singh, Esha Goel, Aman Goyal, Anupriya Chauhan, Manusheel Gupta"	A Conceptual Framework for E-learning using Python environment	"Education is a key element in social and economic prosperity for developing countries. The use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) have helped these countries in developing   e-learning programs to foster creative thinking, collaboration and problem solving skills. This paper explores the role that Python based Sugar applications play in improving literacy levels in emerging countries like India. The important and critical role that Python environment has towards enhancing the learning standards and assessment methodologies in the context of education system in India is discussed. Learning programming and mathematical skills requires incremental exposure to the fundamental computer science concepts. Different ways in which Python can be effectively used to meet the specified and necessary learning requirements is illustrated. It further describes how Python can be used to teach introductory computer science."	"education, science and maths"	Beginner	Yes	"Swarandeep Singh:  Manager,I.T. Research and Community Outreach,Software. Esha Goel, Aman Goyal, Anupriya Chauhan: Educational Consultant. Manusheel Gupta: Chairman and CEO"	India
Rejected	"Ashita Dadlani, Anisha Arora, Manusheel Gupta"	"Development and Deployment of Deducto and Color Deducto, Python based Educational Games for Sugar"	"Educational games are increasingly being recognized as an effective tool of coupling learning and application of concepts with fun and entertainment. With the escalating popularity of such games among students and teachers alike, we must focus on creating an ecosystem in which games can be developed in a relatively lesser time frame using Python, deployed so as to obtain feedback from students and finally modified to meet the educational and user- friendly requirements. This paper focuses on the development, deployment and the educational impact of the games 'Deducto' and 'Color Deducto', python based games developed through the RAD(Rapid Application Development Model) for the sugar platform of OLPC(One Laptop Per Child). These educational activities aim at enhancing the logical and analytical skills of students through pattern recognition. The paper also details the important features conducive to a learning environment, the feedback and statistics gathered on deployment, and the future scope of these games, that includes focusing on areas such as vocabulary building and basic mathematical concepts."	"serious game, education, science and maths, game programming"	Beginner	Yes	Ashita Dadlani- Development Manager	India
Pending Approval	Andrew Hadinyoto	Lose your word processing crutch: Making Great Document with Python	"As an instructor in a polytechnic, I have to create a lot of instructional documents for students. And like most typical computer users, I relied on word processing software like Microsoft Word to produce those documents. But the process was often very time consuming, not so much in writing the materials, but in formatting them. Formatting tasks such as setting the monospace fonts for code, put them in a box and line numbered them took quite a long time to get it right, is very repetitive, often frustrating and always boring - tasks that should be automated instead of manually done using the WYSIWYG interface. Fortunately, there are many great libraries written in Python that can help to produce great documents with in much less time. Even though most of those libraries are designed for web applications, but they are also easy to use for offline usage. This talk is to share my experience in using some of those libraries, and to come up with my own custom script to allow me to write instructional documents quickly and efficiently."	"automation, html5, css, framework"	Intermediate	yes	"Andrew Hadinyoto is an academic staff and the manager of Open Source Technology Development Centre at Republic Polytechnic. Besides his main academic duty, he's also a part time Linux system administrator and guerrilla Python coder."	Singapore
Pending Approval	Mark Mc Mahon	Testing In Python	"Introduction: What is testing? Why Test? How to get started & test? Helpful modules. Test Driving Development. What & Why: During this talk I will cover briefly what testing is and why it is a good idea to do it. There are many benefits to testing: your code is correct; does what you want it to do. A very important point for tests are that they and allow you to change your code with confidence. There are a number of common reasons people give for not testing. I will try and explain why they are raised and some techniques to get started or overcome the reluctance to test. How: The talk will mainly cover how to use the unittest module (from the Python Standard Library) to test your code. How you can use mock objects to replace slow things or things that you don't want to mess up during testing. The coverage module can show you how much of your code has been covered and increase your motivation to add more tests. There is a rich set of modules for testing in Python: py.test, Nose - test runners and help in writing tests. Tox - run your tests on multiple python versions. Fudge, mock - support for writing Mock objects. Test Driven Development (TDD) has it's proponents, and it's detractors. It is done differently by different people. TDD is writing your test first and writing your code 2nd. It makes sure you write tests for all the requierments and can help define a program structure that is more cohesive and less coupled (i.e. good design)."	"programming tools, project best practices"	Beginner	Yes	"I work in the Localization department of a medium size multinational company. I use Python as often as I can, and find it an indespensible tool to have at hand. Other than Python I would recommend to anyone who has to deal with text: Learn regular expressions and use a text editor that supports them well. This can be a time saving if you are dong a one off task :)"	Australia
